Added new kb article using-data-annotations-in-telerik-maui-dataform (#1359)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/using-data-annotations-in-telerik-maui-dataform.md

---
title: Using Data Annotations in Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm

> description: Learn how to use data annotations in the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm, including setting required fields and editor placeholder texts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use data annotations in the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm, including setting required fields and editor placeholder text.
```

type: how-to

> page_title: Adding Data Annotations in Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm

Reviewer: Use the same title in both `page_title` and `meta_title`.

meta_title: Data Annotations in Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm
slug: using-data-annotations-in-telerik-maui-dataform
tags: telerik, ui for .net maui, dataform, data annotations, required field, placeholder text
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author |
| --- | --- | ---- |
| 13.0.0 | Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm | [Dobrinka Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/dobrinka-yordanova) |

## Description

I want to use data annotations in the [Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm](https://www.telerik.com/maui-ui/documentation/controls/dataform/data-annotations). Specifically, I need to know how to mark a field as required and how to specify placeholder text for an editor.

This knowledge base article also answers the following questions:
- How to make a field required in Telerik MAUI DataForm?
- How to set a placeholder text for an editor in Telerik MAUI DataForm?
- What data annotations are available in Telerik MAUI DataForm?

## Solution

To use data annotations in the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataForm, follow these steps:

> 1. Add the `[Required]` attribute to mark a field as required. The user cannot submit the form without filling in this field, and a validation error will appear.

Reviewer: Use the present simple when possible
```suggestion
1. Add the `[Required]` attribute to mark a field as required. If the user tries to submit the form without filling it in, a validation error appears, and the submission is blocked.
```

2. Use the `[Display]` attribute to customize the editor. 

>    - `Name`: Sets the editor header text.

Reviewer: Generally, we use an em dash to separate the items in a definition list.

   - `GroupName`: Defines the group name header.
   - `Prompt`: Specifies the placeholder text inside the editor.

> Here is an example:

Reviewer: That's "short and sweet", but code sample introductions should include more detail so they can be easily indexed.
```suggestion
The next example shows how to use data annotations for a required field in the .NET MAUI DataForm:
```
